2.1.1 Orpheus was greatly honoured among the ancients; he had a golden lyre as a gift from Apollo. And the Muses taught him to play the lyre, before long he had become the most skilled in the art. Indeed he reached such an extent of understanding that he enchanted not only animals with his music but trees too. The wild beasts, so they say, upon hearing the music began to follow Orpheus.
2.1.2 He joined Jason and the Argonauts, and when they returned, succeeding in what they had set out for, carrying the golden fleece, Orpheus settled in Thrace. There he married a nymph, who was called Euridice; but when his wife passed away after being bitten by a snake, Orpheus bore it terribly and as such decided to go with her down to Hades. By playing a lot of sweet music, he was just about able to persuade Pluto, king of those below, to release Euridice. He promised he would do this on condition that Orpheus would not turn around to look at his wife until he had come out of Hades and reached the land above. But Orpheus had already looked around even on the way, and his wife immediately vanished.
2.2.1 Leonidas, the king of the Lacedaemonians, was the bravest man of his time. For he died fighting against the Persians at Thermopylae, though he had only three hundred hoplites, there were no less than one hundred thousand of the enemy. And yet he felt no fear, he ordered his soliders not to lose heart but rather to fight courageously for their homeland, wives and children. Someone said to Leonidas, who was then leading one of the sections of Lacedaemonians, “Come on, general, there are many more of the enemy than us.” But he replied, without any worry, “And I rejoice, by how much fewer we are than them.”
2.3.1 Solon, the law-giver of the Athenians, thought Cleobis and Biton were the most blessed of all men: not just when they were alive, but also when they had died, they became utterly blessed. The story of these young men goes like this: Their mother was a priestess at the temple of Hera in Argos, and for the feast-day of Hera she had to be brought to the temple in the holy cart. But it happened then that the oxen weren’t here from the fields in time. So then the young men, afraid that their mother wouldn’t be able to take part in the festival, fastened themselves to the cart’s yoke and pulled it forty five stadia to the goddess’ temple.
2.3.2 Their mother, delighted with what they had done, prayed to Hera to give to her sons, who she wanted to honour in this way, a gift such that people believe is the best. After she had prayed, they all made a sacrifice and feasted according to custom. But later, the young men fell asleep in the same temple. They never got up, but died in their sleep; for this was the gift - to die in peace - whih the goddess gave them, for it is the best of all possible gifts. Solon said this to Croesus, when he asked him who he thought was the most blessed of all men. Because Croesus, being the wealthiest man alive, hoped that he would be named that.
2.4.1 Hector and the best of the Trojans wanted to deafeat the Danaans and end the war. Therefore, they set out from the city and marched towards the sea, planning to make an attack against the Danaans to see if they could capture their ships.
2.4.2 A vicious battle erupted, and many of the Trojans and Danaans perished. As Agamemnon couseled to drag the ships down and launch to sea, but the other leaders did not want that. Then Ajax called the best of the Greeks together to resist the enemy.
2.4.3 Attacking Ajax with his spear, Hector struck him, but wounding him not; his belt protected him from the missile. So taking large rock Ajax threw it at Hector as he was attacking his comrades, on his neck. Struck he fell, and the Danaans though they rushed him weren’t able to capture Hector, whose companions went forward to guard him with their shields, and then carried him out of the battle.
2.4.4